Boscombe Pool is thickly-wooded round, with just a fringe of
grass and of reeds round the edge. A girl of fourteen, Patience
Moran, who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of
the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking
flowers. She states that while she was there she saw, at
the border of the wood and close by the lake, Mr. McCarthy
and his son, and that they appeared to be having a violent
quarrel. She heard Mr. McCarthy the elder using very strong
language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his hand
as if to strike his father. She was so frightened by their violence
that she ran away, and told her mother when she reached
home that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near
Boscombe Pool, and that she was afraid that they were going
to fight. She had hardly said the words when young Mr.
McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had
found his father dead in the wood, and to ask for the help of
the lodge-keeper. He was much excited, without either his
gun or his hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed
to be stained with fresh blood. On following him they found
the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the Pool.
The head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy
and blunt weapon. The injuries were such as might very
well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son’s gun,
which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the
body. Under these circumstances the young man was instantly
arrested, and a verdict of ‘Wilful Murder’ having been
returned at the inquest on Tuesday, he was on Wednesday
brought before the magistrates at Ross, who have referred the
case to the next assizes. Those are the main facts of the case
as they came out before the coroner and at the police-court.”

“I could hardly imagine a more damning case,” I remarked.
“If ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal
it does so here.”

“Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing,” answered
Holmes, thoughtfully. “It may seem to point very straight
to one thing, but if you shift your own point of view a little,
