
which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at Baker
Street. Mrs. Rucastle is not mad. I found her to be a silent,
pale-faced woman, much younger than her husband, not more
than thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be less than
forty-five. From their conversation I have gathered that they
have been married about seven years, that he was a widower,
and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who
has gone to Philadelphia. Mr. Rucastle told me in private
that the reason why she had left them was that she had an
unreasoning aversion to her step-mother. As the daughter
could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that
her position must have been uncomfortable with her father’s
young wife.

“Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colorless in mind as
well as in feature. She impressed me neither favorably nor
the reverse. She was a nonentity. It was easy to see that she
was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little
son. Her light gray eyes wandered continually from one to
the other, noting every little want and forestalling it if possible.
He was kind to her also in his bluff, boisterous fashion,
and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple. And
yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman. She would often
be lost in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face.
More than once I have surprised her in tears. I have thought
sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which
weighed upon her mind, for I have never met so utterly spoilt
and so ill-natured a little creature. He is small for his age,
with a head which is quite disproportionately large. His
whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between
savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking.
Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to
be his one idea of amusement, and he shows quite remarkable
talent in planning the capture of mice, little birds,
and insects. But I would rather not talk about the creature,
Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my
story.”
